Marie Hirst and Dr Jo Knox                                          
 
Maths Snapshots - Learning Phase 2 (Y4-6) Name:  Year:   1   2   3   4   5   6    7   8  
 
Notes for teacher  
This is a written assessment  tool that is aligned with the new NZ maths curriculum , created by Marie Hirst and Dr Jo Knox ,  
It is a ‘snapshot’ designed  to quickly formatively assess what a student  can do in some threads  of the number strand  in 
phase 2  (but not any other strands).  
It is a low -stakes tool to help provide opportunities for observation and identify next teaching steps. It is not a high -stakes 
assessment for making summative judgements about math  and it is not  standardised or norm referenced .  
DO NOT  complete the assessment all at once. It is not intended to be completed in one go, but to dip into the maths topics when appropriate . 
Please print off each topic focus sheet as and when it is needed.  
N.B. To assess the recall of multiplication and division facts  in secti on 4, please also use the  additional  mult/div basic facts slideshow . Each 
question is displayed for 4 seconds.  If the students cann ot recall the fact, please ask them to miss that question and move on to the next.  
 
Section  Sub-strand  Topic  
1 Number Structure  Place value: read and write numbers (and say number 1, 10, ,100 before and after)  
2 Number Operations  Round  numbers  
3 Number Operations  Add and subtract whole numbers  
4 Number Operations  Recall multiplication and division facts  
5 Number Operations  Multiply and divide whole numbers  
6a Rational Numbers  Compare and order decimals  
6b Rational Numbers  Identify and convert fractions, decimals and percentages  
7 Rational Numbers  Multiply and divide number s by 10 and 100 to make decimals and whole numbers  
8 Rational Numbers  Add and subtract decimals  
9 Rational Numbers  Convert between mixed numbers and improper fractions  
10 Rational Numbers  Find a fraction of an amount  
11 Rational Numbers  Compare and order fractions, identify equivalence and represent in simplest form  
12 Rational Numbers  Add and subtract fractions  
